## Using Factoid Papermill
Factoid Papermill is an app to create private and public factoid address key pairs, the equivalent to a paper wallet for Factoids.
 
Factoids can be managed using the command line or the GUI wallet, which is a bit prettier.

Both the command-line and GUI wallets can import private keys generated with Factoid Papermill.

<aside class="notice"><br>
Before attempting to transact factoids read this guide fully, at least once.
</aside>

The Factoid Papermill app has a different name on different platforms.

* **Mac:** factoidpapermill-mac
* **Windows:** factoidpapermill.exe
* **Linux:** factoidpapermill-linux

**Using Factoid Papermill**

Factoid Papermill is available for [Windows](https://github.com/FactomProject/factoidpapermill/blob/master/bin/factoidpapermill.exe?raw=true), [Mac](https://github.com/FactomProject/factoidpapermill/blob/master/bin/factoidpapermill-mac?raw=true), and [Linux](https://github.com/FactomProject/factoidpapermill/blob/master/bin/factoidpapermill-linux?raw=true). 

Download the appropriate version and double-click to open. 

Upon launching it will automatically generate a new Factoid Private Key and its relative Factoid Address.

> Terminal output for:<br>
> `factoidpapermill`

```shell
> ~/factoidpapermill ; exit;
New Factoid Private Key: Fs2kwahPso3AKLNhcLSAeCLaYVzQ26jZbaHWamw1FipNiH8c9Uhv
New Factoid Address: FA39PmdJiiHjNAJN9Nj2GMUnBYnqn8KqiLNnvmVAifL39PAWQjyx
logout
Saving session...
...copying shared history...
...saving history...truncating history files...
...completed.
[Process completed]
```

Sample Terminal output is shown on the right.
<br>
<br>

Take note of the FA Address and Private Key and keep them in a safe place. If you need more addresses and private keys repeat the process. You can use your newly generated Factoid Address to receive factoids from a third party or an exchange. This method of storing factoids is considered a "cold wallet" or "paper wallet."

<aside class="notice"><br>
Your New Factoid Private Key and New Factoid Address will be different than this example.
Remember you won't be able to send from your new address until you have imported it into one of your wallets. 
</aside>
 
<aside class="warning"><br>
Failure to backup the Private Key generated by Factoid Papermill for a given Factoid Address will cause the loss of all factoids held, sent, or received by these addresses.
</aside>

<aside class="success"><br>
If on Mac and Linux Factoid Papermill doesn’t launch because of missing execute permissions simply open a Terminal window and type:<br>
<br>
chmod +x (with a space after the x)
<br>
<br>
Then drag and drop the app onto the Terminal window to populate its path, and click enter. You should then be able to run FactoidPapermill as described above.
</aside>